let's just talk about trapezius in
general yes you said mid trapezius what
other trapezius are there if we've got a
mid trapezius lower and upper so let's
talk about what they all do what does
the mid trapezius do retract the scapula
what does the upper trapezius do Elevate
the scapula or shrug what does the lower
trapezius do depress the scapula do we
understand that so if we do a lap pull
down what components of the trapezius
are we strengthening middle and lower
you can't Elevate and depress at the
same time does that make sense so a lot
of the time that's a postural deviation
when you see a lot of the people that we
work with personal trainers industry
professionals when we're coaching
somebody that's general population
generally most general population have
these postural deviations from sitting
in front of a computer all day or their
phone or whatever it is they're kind of
like this right so they have rounded
shoulders rounded upper back forward
head internally rotated how do I fix
this person s Sant yeah what else it's
not just about telling them what to do
they're probably very weak in certain
areas that's why they know walk around
like this cuz there's certain muscles
that are weak what are those muscles red
dels yeah probably rhomboids
probably middle and lower trapezius so
think of that action here these muscles
here that attached to the scapula are
now being stretched wearing this
protracted position we've now sitting in
this position for prolonged time periods
stretching this muscle we then forget
how to use these muscles so it's not
just protractor that's not really how we
sit now put your elbows up on the desk a
bit higher the desk is a bit higher so
what's happening up here what are these
muscles here so we got protraction but
we've got elevation so we're here so
this is where people say you know tied
up at traps and weak low traps that's
why so quite often these are tight like
people say I need a massage they'll
massage you uper traps that's the
standard thing when someone needs
massage you do it there right so that is
why so now this person has overactive
upper trapezius because they're used to
holding their arms up all day long like
this and they have weak middle and lower
trapezius because they've been stretched
all day long what's an exercise that I
can prescribe for this individual to
help them with this dysfunction what do
I need to strengthen yeah those muscles
that are now weak which are rhomboids
middle and lower trapezius what are some
great exercises to strengthen that group
of muscles that pull down performed
correctly I say perform correctly
because how does this individual perform
a lap pull down this person performs a
lap pull down by elevating their scapula
not depressing their scapula there is no
retraction and depression of the scapula
which is the role of the rhomboids and
the middle and low
trapezius so what do I need to teach
this individual how to do some common
cues chest up what does chest up do
extends thoracic spine what is paired
with thoracic extension retraction and
depression of the scapula so what I need
to do yes I that pull down correct
correctly perform that pull down how do
I do that I educate the individual on
thoracic extension and retraction
depression of the scapula so this is
what I want to correct this dysfunction
a correctly performed l pull down let's
go okay so what we have here is a very
well-rounded lat pull P down so we go
from a full stretch retraction
depression of the scapula